---

copyright:
  years: 1994, 2017-2019
lastupdated: "2019-03-08"

keywords: DNS Terminology, Caching, individual DNS servers, DNS resolver

subcollection: dns

---


{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}

# DNS Terminology
{:#dns-terminology}

## Caching and time to live
{:#caching-and-time-to-live}

Because of the huge volume of requests generated by a system like DNS, the designers provided a mechanism to reduce the load on individual DNS servers, as follows:

When a DNS resolver (that is, a client) receives a DNS response, it caches that response for a given period of time, called the time to live, or TTL. The value of TTL is set by the administrator of the DNS server handing out the response. Once a response goes into the cache, the resolver consults its cached (stored) answer; only when the TTL expires (or when an administrator manually flushes the response from the resolver's memory) will the resolver contact the DNS server for the same information.

## Start of Authority (SOA) record parameters
{:#soa-record-parameters}

Generally, the time to live is specified in the Start of Authority (SOA) record. SOA parameters are:

### Serial
{:#soa-record-parameters-serial}

The revision number of this zone file. Increment this number each time the zone file is changed so that the changes will be distributed to any secondary DNS servers.

### Refresh
{:#soa-record-parameters-refresh}

The amount of time in seconds that a secondary name server should wait to check for a new copy of a DNS zone from the domain's primary name server. If a zone file has changed then the secondary DNS server will update its copy of the zone to match the primary DNS server's zone.

### Retry
{:#soa-record-parameters-retry}

The amount of time in seconds that a domain's primary name server (or servers) should wait if an attempt to refresh by a secondary name server failed before attempting to refresh a domain's zone with that secondary name server again.

### Expire
{:#soa-record-parameters-expire}

The amount of time in seconds that a secondary name server (or servers) will hold a zone before it is no longer considered authoritative.

### Minimum
{:#soa-record-parameters-minimum}

The amount of time in seconds that a domain's resource records are valid. This is also known as a minimum TTL, and can be overridden by an individual resource record's TTL.

### TTL (time to live)
{:#soa-record-parameters-ttl}

The number of seconds a domain name is cached locally before expiration and return to authoritative names servers for updated information.
